README.md, before:

---
title: DeployPythonicRAG
emoji: 📉
colorFrom: blue
colorTo: purple
sdk: docker
pinned: false
license: apache-2.0
---

# Deploying Pythonic Chat With Your Text File Application

In today's breakout rooms, we will be following the processed that you saw during the challenge - for reference, the instructions for that are available [here](https://github.com/AI-Maker-Space/Beyond-ChatGPT/tree/main).

Today, we will repeat the same process - but powered by our Pythonic RAG implementation we created last week. 

You'll notice a few differences in the `app.py` logic - as well as a few changes to the `aimakerspace` package to get things working smoothly with Chainlit.

## Reference Diagram (It's Busy, but it works)

![image](https://i.imgur.com/IaEVZG2.png)

## Deploying the Application to Hugging Face Space

Due to the way the repository is created - it should be straightforward to deploy this to a Hugging Face Space!

> NOTE: If you wish to go through the local deployments using `chainlit run app.py` and Docker - please feel free to do so!

<details>
    <summary>Creating a Hugging Face Space</summary>

1.  Navigate to the `Spaces` tab.

![image](https://i.imgur.com/aSMlX2T.png)

2. Click on `Create new Space`

![image](https://i.imgur.com/YaSSy5p.png)

3. Create the Space by providing values in the form. Make sure you've selected "Docker" as your Space SDK.

![image](https://i.imgur.com/6h9CgH6.png)

</details>

<details>
    <summary>Adding this Repository to the Newly Created Space</summary>

1. Collect the SSH address from the newly created Space. 

![image](https://i.imgur.com/Oag0m8E.png)

> NOTE: The address is the component that starts with `git@hf.co:spaces/`.

2. Use the command:

```bash
git remote add hf HF_SPACE_SSH_ADDRESS_HERE
```

3. Use the command:

```bash
git pull hf main --no-rebase --allow-unrelated-histories -X ours
```

4. Use the command: 

```bash 
git add .
```

5. Use the command:

```bash
git commit -m "Deploying Pythonic RAG"
```

6. Use the command: 

```bash
git push hf main
```

7. The Space should automatically build as soon as the push is completed!

> NOTE: The build will fail before you complete the following steps!

</details>

<details>
    <summary>Adding OpenAI Secrets to the Space</summary>

1. Navigate to your Space settings.

![image](https://i.imgur.com/zh0a2By.png)

2. Navigate to `Variables and secrets` on the Settings page and click `New secret`: 

![image](https://i.imgur.com/g2KlZdz.png)

3. In the `Name` field - input `OPENAI_API_KEY` in the `Value (private)` field, put your OpenAI API Key.

![image](https://i.imgur.com/eFcZ8U3.png)

4. The Space will begin rebuilding!

</details>

## 🎉

You just deployed Pythonic RAG!

Try uploading a text file and asking some questions!

## 🚧CHALLENGE MODE 🚧

For more of a challenge, please reference [Building a Chainlit App](./BuildingAChainlitApp.md)!

Commit message:

added pythonic rag v1 with two file uploads, vector store in chroma and refactored code

README.md, after:

---
title: DeployPythonicRAG
emoji: 📉
colorFrom: blue
colorTo: purple
sdk: docker
pinned: false
license: apache-2.0
---

# Summary

This is my completed pythonic RAG assignment, completed for Session 3 of the AI Engineering Cohort 4.
I implemented the following:
1. Allow user to upload TWO documents (instead of a single document)
2. Format of doc: they can be either text files or pdf docs.
3. Text splitter - RecursiveTextSplitter from Langchain
4. Vector store - using Chroma db
5. Coded the chain in two ways for my own education
    a. traditional Langchain syntax - two step process of with 'stuff documents chain' and 'retrieval chain'
    b. using LCEL syntax with Runnables
6. Most processing pythonic steps implemented via a single class with modular components
    that can be replaced with others (e.g., text splitter, vector store, etc.)


# Retaining the original content of the README.md for my future reference!!


# Deploying Pythonic Chat With Your Text File Application

In today's breakout rooms, we will be following the processed that you saw during the challenge - for reference, the instructions for that are available [here](https://github.com/AI-Maker-Space/Beyond-ChatGPT/tree/main).

Today, we will repeat the same process - but powered by our Pythonic RAG implementation we created last week. 

You'll notice a few differences in the `app.py` logic - as well as a few changes to the `aimakerspace` package to get things working smoothly with Chainlit.

## Reference Diagram (It's Busy, but it works)

![image](https://i.imgur.com/IaEVZG2.png)

## Deploying the Application to Hugging Face Space

Due to the way the repository is created - it should be straightforward to deploy this to a Hugging Face Space!

> NOTE: If you wish to go through the local deployments using `chainlit run app.py` and Docker - please feel free to do so!

<details>
    <summary>Creating a Hugging Face Space</summary>

1.  Navigate to the `Spaces` tab.

![image](https://i.imgur.com/aSMlX2T.png)

2. Click on `Create new Space`

![image](https://i.imgur.com/YaSSy5p.png)

3. Create the Space by providing values in the form. Make sure you've selected "Docker" as your Space SDK.

![image](https://i.imgur.com/6h9CgH6.png)

</details>

<details>
    <summary>Adding this Repository to the Newly Created Space</summary>

1. Collect the SSH address from the newly created Space. 

![image](https://i.imgur.com/Oag0m8E.png)

> NOTE: The address is the component that starts with `git@hf.co:spaces/`.

2. Use the command:

```bash
git remote add hf HF_SPACE_SSH_ADDRESS_HERE
```

3. Use the command:

```bash
git pull hf main --no-rebase --allow-unrelated-histories -X ours
```

4. Use the command: 

```bash 
git add .
```

5. Use the command:

```bash
git commit -m "Deploying Pythonic RAG"
```

6. Use the command: 

```bash
git push hf main
```

7. The Space should automatically build as soon as the push is completed!

> NOTE: The build will fail before you complete the following steps!

</details>

<details>
    <summary>Adding OpenAI Secrets to the Space</summary>

1. Navigate to your Space settings.

![image](https://i.imgur.com/zh0a2By.png)

2. Navigate to `Variables and secrets` on the Settings page and click `New secret`: 

![image](https://i.imgur.com/g2KlZdz.png)

3. In the `Name` field - input `OPENAI_API_KEY` in the `Value (private)` field, put your OpenAI API Key.

![image](https://i.imgur.com/eFcZ8U3.png)

4. The Space will begin rebuilding!

</details>

## 🎉

You just deployed Pythonic RAG!

Try uploading a text file and asking some questions!

## 🚧CHALLENGE MODE 🚧

For more of a challenge, please reference [Building a Chainlit App](./BuildingAChainlitApp.md)!
